Add package sets conventions to SPEC (#380)
purescript/registry: SPEC.md

#### Package Sets Release Schedule

PureScript package sets are released once per day if there have been any changes (one or more packages has been added, removed, or updated). Most package set releases are automated, but there are various scenarios in which the PureScript packaging team (@purescript/packaging) must manually intervene to resolve conflicts. It is possible for there to be multiple package sets released on the same day due to manual releases.

#### Automatic Package Sets Process

The registry attempts to produce a new package set automatically every day, so long as packages have been uploaded that could be added or updated. No packages are ever dropped from a package set automatically; the only time packages are dropped from the package sets are during manual releases.

Every day, the registry CI executes the following steps:

First, we read the contents of the latest package set release and gather all package versions that have been uploaded to the registry since that release. These package versions are the "batch" of packages that we are considering for automatic inclusion to the next package set.

> Second, we filter out any packages where, based on their metadata and manifest files alone, we know they can't be added to the package set. This happens for one of three reasons: they have a dependency that isn't in the package sets, or they had multiple releases since the last package set, in which case we only take the highest version, or c) they already have a higher version number released  in the previous package set. In any of these cases, we remove the package from consideration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, we filter out any packages where, based on their metadata and manifest files alone, we know they can't be added to the package set. This happens for one of three reasons:
1. they have a dependency that isn't in the package sets, or
2. they had multiple releases since the last package set, in which case we only take the highest version, or
3. they already have a higher version number released  in the previous package set. In any of these cases, we remove the package from consideration.
```

Policies followed by the registry — though maybe these are better-suited to be stored as separate specs apart from this document.

### 9.1 Registry Trustees
A summary of the actions that registry trustees are permitted to take and when they should be taken.

### 9.2 Name Squatting & Reassigning Names
Our policy on changing package names

### 9.3 Package Sets

The registry provides a curated package set that lists packages known to build together with a particular compiler version. Package managers such as Spago use this package set to decide what versions of your dependencies to install.

#### Package Set Files

Package sets are stored in the `registry` repository under the `package-sets` directory. Each package set is stored as both a Dhall file and a JSON file. A package set is an object or record comprised of the following fields:

1. `version`, which is a string containing the SemVer package set version for this set.
2. `compiler`, which is a string containing the SemVer compiler version used to verify the package set.
3. `date`, which is a date string in YYYY-MM-DD format that describes which day this package set was produced.

> 4. `packages`, which is an object in which keys are package names and values are are an object `{ version, hash }`. The version in this object is a SemVer string representing the package version and the hash is an SRI-encoded string that hashes the package contents at that version.

Author: If we need to include the hash in the package set file to help support Nix workflows, then ideally we'd make it optional so that it's still easy to make your own package sets.

For example, in JSON:

```json
{
  "version": "v2.3.1",
  "date": "2022-04-19",

>   "compiler": "v0.14.9",

Author: I opted to bring this information into the package set file itself. We already have the info (it's in the package set name), but if any tooling were to want to use that information it would be better for it to be inside the file and easily parsed via JSON rather than forcing them to parse the file name string.

  "packages": {
    "aff": {
      "version": "v5.0.0",

>       "hash": "sha256-fP5dDqsc3/rjZ+WTKFrfIGzuwFnmSQLQg3o+NC17jpY="

Author: @cdepillabout Does the package set file need to include the package hash directly, or is it possible for tools like `purescript2nix` to look up the hash in the package metadata file (which is stored in this repository under the `metadata` directory)? It would be a little nicer to not include this information in the package set file itself.

Author: For context, this is the information that would be stored for each package:
https://github.com/purescript/registry/blob/0c9d437a570f8e3a0a8febf20eae1325637ae99d/v1/Metadata.dhall#L19-L28

Reviewer 2: > Does the package set file need to include the package hash directly, or is it possible for tools like purescript2nix to look up the hash in the package metadata file (which is stored in this repository under the metadata directory)?

From the perspective of Nix, every file that is downloaded and used during the build process needs to be hashed somewhere.

So, for instance, `purescript2nix` would need one of the following cases to be true:

- The package set file contains hashes of each of the individual source tarballs.  The package set file has a dhall hash in the user's `packages.dhall` file, which was probably added by `spago`.  (It sounds like this is explicitly what you want to avoid...)

- The package set file does not contain hashes of each package, but it _does_ contain a hash of the metadata file.  The metadata file contains hashes for each of the individual source tarballs.  The package set file has a dhall hash in the user's `packages.dhall` file, which was probably added by `spago`.

    In this case, `purescript2nix` would first download the package set file using the hash in the user's `packages.dhall`, then download the metadata file using the hash from the package set file.  It could then download all the individual source tarballs using the hashes in the metadata file.

- The package set file does not contain hashes of each package.  It also does not contain a hash of the metadata file.  However, `spago` adds a URL to the metadata file and a hash that Nix can use to the user's `packages.dhall` file.

    In this case, `purescript2nix` would be able to download both the package set file and the metadata file based on the URLs and hashes in the user's `packages.dhall` file.

The main thing that wouldn't work for building with Nix is if there is no "hashed path" to get to the metadata data file from the user's `packages.dhall` file in their own repo.  Nix doesn't really have any good way of using non-hashed files as build inputs.

(The above is assuming that `spago` still uses the `spago.dhall` and `packages.dhall` files.  My understanding is that there may be some changes with `spago` to support the new registry stuff, so `packages.dhall` may not be the correct file name anymore.  I haven't really followed what is going on with this.)

Reviewer 2: > which is stored in this repository under the metadata directory

Oh, I guess another possibility is that the user's `packages.dhall` contains a URL and dhall hash of the entire PureScript Repository.  The PureScript Repository contains both the package set file and the metadata file.  This would also work for Nix/`purescript2nix`.

Reviewer: I think it's important to note that we wouldn't want the hashes to be in the package set files because they are meant to be edited by hand, so bumping hashes en-masse manually would not be practical.

Since this proposal includes generating a JSON version of the package set we could take that further and have a "master package set file" that is practical to edit by hand, and then generate other files (that could contain the hashes we need) from there. Would this make sense?

Author: Yea, one difficult part is how the hashes should work in the case of package set overrides. The metadata files always contain the hashes, and even with overrides so long as the set points to registry dependencies that means the hashes are accessible to tooling without any manual work on the user’s part:

But if to use the metadata files they must be contained in a hash themselves it’s less clear how to make sure this works with Nix even when you have a package set with overrides.

    },
    "affjax": {
      "version": "v5.0.0",
      "hash": "sha256-fP5dDqsc3/rjZ+WTKFrfIGzuwFnmSQLQg3o+NC17jpY="
    }
  }
}
```

#### Package Set Naming Conventions

Package sets use the following naming convention:

> `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH+YYYY-MM-DD-purs-MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`

Author: I added the hyphens to YYYY-MM-DD for readability. Are y'all OK with that @f-f @colinwahl?

Reviewer 3: It is fine with me! I also find this more readable. I think I suggested this on last week's call but forgot to type it down in the issue.

Reviewer 4: I think the hyphens help.

Reviewer 3: Is it worth mentioning that the first `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` is the package set version, whereas the `purs-MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` is the version of the compiler the package set was verified with? 

In particular those two versions are not intended to match.

Author: Yeah, I think it’s worth mentioning. I do that later but maybe I should bring it up closer to these names

Author: At least in the case of Spago, as an end user you usually just have the URL to use to determine what package set you’re on. So the advantage is that at a glance you can tell what version, date, and compiler that set is on, without having to go look at the set’s contents.

The long names are more to type, that’s for sure. I think it makes sense to switch to short versions if we anticipate it changing often. In my spago use, though, I almost always use automatic upgrades so it wouldn’t save me any effort to use short names. But maybe others do this manually more often than I do.

All-in-all I vote to keep the long names in place but I’m open to the short names.
